
New in 4.1
----------

Added the ability to customize the main menu by giving a list of
buttons on the main menu and the labels that they jump the user to.

Added the ability to center-click to hide any displayed text or menus.

Added the ability to have a color mouse that we can move around the
screen. 

Added a persistent object, which has fields that are persistent across
games. Made the preferences part of this object, so that they are
persisted across sessions. For simplicity's sake, made seen_ever part
of that persistent object.

Added a special character called "centered", which causes the text it
displays to be centered in the screen without any window. Added two
new styles (centered_window and centered_text), which are used for
this, and a new property, textalign, which controls the horizontal
alignment of text within the Text object itself.

Keywords are now special in all contexts. So you can no longer include
keywords in image names. Sorry.

Improved parse error messages. They now include the text of the
line and a caret indication the location in the line where the parse
error occurred.

Added a with clause to say statements and menus. This lets one display
dialogue, thoughts, or menus using a transition. In conjunction with
this, changed a bit the semantics of with statements, and with clauses
on show, hide, and scene statements. Rewrote the section on
transitions in the documentation to reflect the new reality.

Added the ability to translate the text of the game menu. Together
with the ability to change the main menu, this makes Ren'Py fully
localizable, except for error messages. Check out the Localization
section in the tutorial for more details.

Added confirmations for quitting and overwriting a save game. This
also includes quitting by trying to close the window.

Added a preferences screen, which lets users change the Ren'Py
preferences. Right now, this includes Windowed/Fullscreen, Music
Enabled/Disabled, CTRL Skips Unread/All messages, and Transitions
controls which transitions are performed.

Added a Pan function which can be used with at. This allows us to pan
over a background image.
[not documented]
